I have been buying index Funds for many years.
There are so many cheap ETF meaning Exchange-Traded Funds
products that you can buy,
everything from small stock ETFs,
again that means Exchange-Traded Funds
to foreign country ETFs to Sector ETFs to Silver ETFs
and many Bond Fund ETFs, etc.
My favorite ETF company is Vanguard,
which charges fees that are very, very small
on many of it's products, okay,
and some of these fees are only .09%
versus Mutual Funds and other firms
that can charge a lot higher, okay
and many Index Funds usually charge less than .5%
and I think that the blended average is .28%
for all great Index Funds, or ETF Funds, same thing.
So if you open a Vanguard account
you will never pay any hidden fees,
or other fees besides the roughly .09% fee
you will pay on most of their products.
Okay, and I'm not sponsored by Vanguard at all,
please, I'm just trying to be intellectually honest
and tell you about great investments
and in the next exercise, or the next lecture,
after this one we'll talk about
other firms similar to Vanguard.
So Vanguard's fees are incredibly low.
And so let's talk about an example of one of their products
called the Vanguard Total Stock Market ETF,
which has an expense ratio as you can see here of .04%,
which is literally 96% cheaper than the average
expense ratio of funds with similar holding, okay,
and use whatever Index Fund company that you want to,
you know I love buying from larger retail firms
like Walmart as they buy in bulk
and their prices are obviously low.
And the same can be said of Vanguard
given their enormous scale and Vanguard has
so many different types of Index Funds to invest in,
it's kind of like Walmart for all liquid
and low cost investments,
liquid means you can buy and sell stuff quickly, okay.
Also, since Vanguard doesn't trade nearly as much
as Mutual Funds do, then you end up paying less tax,
because if you hold investments for more than one year,
again in many countries you pay less tax,
it's also a better way to invest.
And buy and hold over decades works exceptionally well.
And so 83% of Vanguard's Index Funds
have had no capital gains taxable distributions
in the past five years.
That basically means that they've not
really sold very much,
so they don't really have any taxable gains,
okay which is good for you
because you won't pay taxes on that, okay,
unless you sell the products, okay.
So Vanguard's Index investments are called ETFs,
which again means Exchange-Traded Funds,
so call Vanguard and ask them to send you a prospectus,
which basically means a document telling you
everything about the company and their funds.
Call them, ask them to send you a prospectus
and you can start doing research
on what ETFs are best for you
and so here's is their number right here, okay,
it's 800-662-2739.
If this number doesn't work for you,
than you can also access them, access them online
here at vanguard.com, okay.
Now if you don't want to open a Vanguard account,
then you can still buy their ETFs
through your local broker or through your bank, okay
and this will make much more sense to you very soon.
And even you can ask your bank to recommend brokers
that you can use for investment accounts
and make sure that the fees are very, very low,
okay when you talk to a broker, okay,
if you are buying ETF products from a company like Vanguard
they shouldn't really charge you very much fees,
just understand the fees structure please.
It's, if you work for a company, a big company,
and you have a retirement investment account
set up at your company,
ask your company about Vanguard's Index Funds,
or Index Funds in general from other companies,
just please make sure that the fees are very low,
most people never ask about the fees, okay
and don't worry, I'm gonna be objective
and intellectually honest in our discussion of Index Funds
as we will talk about Vanguard
alternatives in the next lecture, thanks.